Network Scanning Tools:



	Nbtscan
	From: http://www.unixwiz.net/tools/nbtscan.html
	Description:
This is a command-line tool that scans for open NETBIOS nameservers on a local or remote TCP/IP network, and this is a first step in finding of open shares. It is based on the functionality of the standard Windows tool nbtstat, but it operates on a range of addresses instead of just one. I wrote this tool because the existing tools either didn't do what I wanted or ran only on the Windows platforms: mine runs on just about everything. 

	Netcat
	From: http://nc110.sourceforge.net/
	Description: Network Swiss army knife. Ncat’s predecessor.
Outbound or inbound connections, TCP or UDP, to or from any ports
Full DNS forward/reverse checking, with appropriate warnings
Ability to use any local source port
Ability to use any locally-configured network source address
Built-in port-scanning capabilities, with randomizer
Built-in loose source-routing capability
Can read command line arguments from standard input
Slow-send mode, one line every N seconds
Hex dump of transmitted and received data
Optional ability to let another program service established connections
Optional telnet-options responder
   	
	Ncat
	From:
	Description:
Ncat is a feature-packed networking utility which reads and writes data across networks from the command line. Ncat was written for the Nmap Project as a much-improved reimplementation of the venerable Netcat. It uses both TCP and UDP for communication and is designed to be a reliable back-end tool to instantly provide network connectivity to other applications and users. Ncat will not only work with IPv4 and IPv6 but provides the user with a virtually limitless number of potential uses. 
Among Ncat’s vast number of features there is the ability to chain Ncats together, redirect both TCP and UDP ports to other sites, SSL support, and proxy connections via SOCKS4 or HTTP (CONNECT method) proxies (with optional proxy authentication as well). Some general principles apply to most applications and thus give you the capability of instantly adding networking support to software that would normally never support it. 

	Nmap
	From: http://nmap.org/
	Description: 
Nmap ("Network Mapper") is a free and open source (license) utility for network discovery and security auditing. Many systems and network administrators also find it useful for tasks such as network inventory, managing service upgrade schedules, and monitoring host or service uptime. Nmap uses raw IP packets in novel ways to determine what hosts are available on the network, what services (application name and version) those hosts are offering, what operating systems (and OS versions) they are running, what type of packet filters/firewalls are in use, and dozens of other characteristics. It was designed to rapidly scan large networks, but works fine against single hosts. Nmap runs on all major computer operating systems, and official binary packages are available for Linux, Windows, and Mac OS X. In addition to the classic command-line Nmap executable, the Nmap suite includes an advanced GUI and results viewer (Zenmap), a flexible data transfer, redirection, and debugging tool (Ncat), a utility for comparing scan results (Ndiff), and a packet generation and response analysis tool (Nping). 

	Angry IP Scanner
	From: http://angryip.org/
	Description: 
Angry IP Scanner (or simply ipscan) is an open-source and cross-platform network scanner designed to be fast and simple to use. It scans IP addresses and ports as well as has many other features. 

	Unicorn Scan
	From: http://www.unicornscan.org/
	Description: Unicornscan is a new information gathering and correlation engine built for and by members of the security research and testing communities. It was designed to provide an engine that is Scalable, Accurate, Flexible, and Efficient. It is released for the community to use under the terms of the GPL license. 

	My note: Use this to mass scan networks. It’s faster than nmap at scanning large host lists and allows you to see live hosts quickly.

	DNS Recon
	From: https://github.com/darkoperator/dnsrecon
	Description: Python script 

	DNSEnum
	From: https://github.com/fwaeytens/dnsenum
	Description: Multithreaded perl script to enumerate DNS information of a domain and to discover non-contiguous ip blocks.

	Enum4Linux
	From: https://labs.portcullis.co.uk/tools/enum4linux/
	Description: 
Enum4linux is a tool for enumerating information from Windows and Samba systems. It attempts to offer similar functionality to enum.exe formerly available from www.bindview.com.
It is written in Perl and is basically a wrapper around the Samba tools smbclient, rpclient, net and nmblookup.
The tool usage can be found below followed by examples, previous versions of the tool can be found at the bottom of the page.

	SNMPWalk

	Onesixtyone
	From: http://www.phreedom.org/software/onesixtyone/
	Description: onesixtyone is an SNMP scanner which utilizes a sweep technique to achieve very high performance. It can scan an entire class B network in under 13 minutes. It can be used to discover devices responding to well-known community names or to mount a dictionary attack against one or more SNMP devices.

	HPing
	From: http://www.hping.org/
	Description: 
	While hping was mainly used as a security tool in the past, it can be used in many ways by people that don't care about security to test networks and hosts. A subset of the stuff you can do using hping: 
Firewall testing 
Advanced port scanning 
Network testing, using different protocols, TOS, fragmentation 
Manual path MTU discovery 
Advanced traceroute, under all the supported protocols 
Remote OS fingerprinting 
Remote uptime guessing 
TCP/IP stacks auditing 

	TXDNS
	From: http://www.txdns.net/
	Description:

TXDNS is a Win32 aggressive multithreaded DNS digger. Capable of placing, on the wire, thousands of DNS queries per minute. TXDNS main goal is to expose a domain namespace trough a number of techniques: 
Typos: Mised, doouble and transposde keystrokes; 
TLD/ccSLD rotation;
Dictionary attack;
Full Brute-force attack using alpha, numeric or alphanumeric charsets;
Reverse grinding.

	JXplorer
	From: http://jxplorer.org/
	Description:
JXplorer is a cross platform LDAP browser and editor. It is a standards compliant general purpose LDAP client that can be used to search, read and edit any standard LDAP directory, or any directory service with an LDAP or DSML interface. 
It is highly flexible and can be extended and customised in a number of ways. JXplorer is written in java, and the source code and Ant build system are available via svn or as a packaged build for users who want to experiment or further develop the program. 	

	LDAPMiner
	From: http://ldapminer.sourceforge.net/
	Description: 
This is a tool I wrote to collect information from different LDAP Server implementation. This was written in C with the Netscape C 

	Firewalk
	From: http://packetfactory.openwall.net/projects/firewalk/
	Description:
Firewalk is an active reconnaissance network security tool that attempts to determine what layer 4 protocols a  given IP forwarding device will pass. Firewalk  works  by sending out TCP or UDP packets with a TTL one greater than the targeted gateway.  If the gateway allows the traffic, it will forward the packets to the next hop where they will expire and elicit an ICMP_TIME_EXCEEDED  message.  If the gateway hostdoes not allow the traffic, it will likely drop the packets on  the floor and we will see no response.
To get  the  correct  IP  TTL that will result in expired packets one beyond the gateway we need  to  ramp  up  hop-counts.   We  do  this  in the same manner that traceroute works.  Once we have the gateway hopcount (at  that point the scan is said to be `bound`) we can begin our scan.
It is significant to note the fact that the ultimate destination host does not have to be reached.  It just  needs to be somewhere downstream, on the other side of the gateway, from the scanning host.
	
	Softera LDAP Browser
	From: http://www.ldapbrowser.com/info_softerra-ldap-browser.htm
	Description: LDAP Browser that supports most LDAP implementations. Non-free software, 30-day free trial.
advanced directory browsing 
comprehensive directory search 
customizable directory reports 
LDAP SQL queries 
data export (LDIF, DSML v.1, DSML v.2, MS Excel, CSV, Plain Text, HTML) 
customizable HTML views 
LDAP schema viewer 
SASL and SSL authentication 
and much more 
















